The Open Review-Based (ORB) dataset: Towards
Automatic Assessment of Scientific Papers and
Experiment Proposals in High-Energy Physics
Jaroslaw Szumega1,2,∗
Lamine Bougueroua3
Blerina Gkotse1,2
Pierre Jouvelot2
Federico Ravotti1
1Experimental Physics Department, CERN, Geneva, Switzerland
2Mines Paris, Université PSL, Paris, France
3Efrei Research Lab, Université Paris-Panthéon-Assas, Paris, France
Abstract
With the Open Science approach becoming important for research, the evolution
towards open scientific-paper reviews is making an impact on the scientific com-
munity. However, there is a lack of publicly available resources for conducting
research activities related to this subject, as only a limited number of journals and
conferences currently allow access to their review process for interested parties.
In this paper, we introduce the new comprehensive Open Review-Based dataset
(ORB); it includes a curated list of more than 36,000 scientific papers with their
more than 89,000 reviews and final decisions. We gather this information from two
sources: the OpenReview.net and SciPost.org websites. However, given the volatile
nature of this domain, the software infrastructure that we introduce to supplement
the ORB dataset is designed to accommodate additional resources in the future.
The ORB deliverables include (1) Python code (interfaces and implementations)
to translate document data and metadata into a structured and high-level represen-
tation, (2) an ETL process (Extract, Transform, Load) to facilitate the automatic
updates from defined sources and (3) data files representing the structured data.
The paper presents our data architecture and an overview of the collected data
along with relevant statistics. For illustration purposes, we also discuss preliminary
Natural-Language-Processing-based experiments that aim to predict (1) papers’
acceptance based on their textual embeddings, and (2) grading statistics inferred
from embeddings as well. We believe ORB provides a valuable resource for re-
searchers interested in open science and review, with our implementation easing
the use of this data for further analysis and experimentation. We plan to update
ORB as the field matures as well as introduce new resources even more fitted to
dedicated scientific domains such as High-Energy Physics.
1
Introduction
The motivation for the introduction of the ORB dataset dedicated to the reviews of scientific publica-
tions stems from a quite specific research goal. Within the framework of the RADNEXT project2
which sponsors international collaborations for the performance of High-Energy Physics (HEP)
experiments through Transnational Access (TA), we aim to define a data model dedicated to the data
management of these user experiments. Our general interest was to research if and how Natural Lan-
guage Processing (NLP) techniques could be used to provide both support and automatic evaluation
∗Corresponding author
2https://radnext.web.cern.ch
Preprint. Under review.
arXiv:2312.04576v1  [cs.DL]  29 Nov 2023


of the formal requests for experiments submitted by interested institutions and companies. This may
include the generation of practical pieces of advice (i.e., any sort of “pre-reviews”) provided to the
reviewers or recommendations for the beneficiaries even before their proposal is fully submitted.
Unfortunately, the number of the already evaluated RADNEXT submissions and corresponding
reviews is limited for now, and as such, this data wouldn’t be sufficient to ensure the proper training
of any machine-learning-based model. Indeed, numerous samples of peer reviews and representative
cross-sections of scores are critical to minimize any bias possibly existing in the documents and avoid
high-frequency pattern generation. Otherwise, various weaknesses related to artificial text would be
visible in the generated reviews, rendering them useless ([Yuan et al., 2022]).
This is to alleviate the scarcity of training data for our project that we envisioned taking advantage of
the budding Open Peer Review (OPR) movement ([Ross-Hellauer, 2017]). This radical transforma-
tion of the scientific assessment of research papers by conference and journal editors, moving from
the still prevalent use of blind and secretive reviews to an open approach, is bound to produce large
and publicly available resources (papers, reviews, scores, etc.) whose content is clearly related to the
experiment proposals we want to help assess within the RADNEXT project.
Yet, as already mentioned, reliable training data is crucial to help assess whether an “intelligent”
system capable of providing scientific recommendations and reviews for the RADNEXT community
can be designed and implemented. At the same time, since the OPR movement is still in its infancy,
it is currently difficult to identify sources that can provide generally accessible reviewing information.
Despite the growing number of journals applying an OPR process (20 publishers and 174 journals in
2018 compared to 38 publishers and 617 journals in 2020, according to [Wolfram et al., 2019] and
[Wolfram et al., 2020]), access to these reviews is often restricted, as OPR journals provide authors
the option to opt-out of sharing the review process publicly.
The new Open Review-Based (ORB) dataset introduced here3 represents a first step into providing
both an initial set of publicly available scientific reviews and a computing infrastructure able to
accommodate the future introduction of new related sources. In this first version, ORB is populated
with the publicly available data provided by the OpenReview.net and SciPost.org platforms. If the
initial motivation for ORB is the rather specific RADNEXT project4, it is quite clear that such a
resource will also be of significant value for researchers interested into assessing the impact of
the paradigm-shifting OPR movement, both on the academic milieu and the society at large. The
Open Peer Review process is at least partially transparent and subjected to a broader community’s
assessment - therefore improving the quality of the reviews and their objectivity. With a large enough
OPR-centered dataset, it will be possible to conduct related research and build NLP models for a
possibly more objective document-evaluation process or even checking the presence of possible bias
in non-OPR comments.
In the rest of the paper, we first review the work related to our research in Section 2. In Section 3, we
present the ORB dataset design, implementation and main contributions; additionally we motivate
their most important features. Potential applications, results of initial illustrative experiments and
limitations are presented in Section 4, before concluding in Section 5. Appendix A provides the ORB
datasheet, for reference.
2
Related work
Having reviewed the Open Review Policy (ORP) notices from MDPI and PeerJ 5, we found that both
publishers support the ORP principles while PeerJ also publishes a peer-review history since February
2023. However, authors have still the possibility to opt-out of making reviews public. Even though
OPR is encouraged, it is often not trusted enough. Authors and publishers seem to be particularly
concerned about their own data privacy. These difficulties result in the relatively small number of
available OPR datasets and restricted access to them. For instance, Elsevier offers access to the "Peer
Review Workbench" dataset ([Williams, 2021]), part of the cloud-based "ICSR Lab" computational
3https://gitlab.cern.ch/irrad/orb-dataset
4Incidentally, note that the study of radiation effects is of utmost importance for a society that relies crucially
on GPS and telecommunication satellites and other computing-based systems, which can be significantly
damaged by a single solar event and its accompanying shower of ionizing particles in the absence of properly
designed protection equipment.
5Sources:https://mdpi.com/editorial_process; https://peerj.com/about/policies-and-procedures
2


platform. Its purpose is to help to advance research evaluation and bring the entire dataset to the
end-users via the ICSR platform. However, the official documentation of this dataset6 states that the
access is granted only when a proper research proposal is submitted beforehand. This should include
title, abstract, expected outcomes, and supporting research.
Some of the most interesting data fields, useful for NLP research (abstract, reviewer’s comments),
are attached only for accepted articles. We believe that negative and detailed counter-examples are
also very valuable input for researchers who would like to perform detailed research on dependencies
between scientific papers’ content, their reviews, and final decisions.
Based on online research and private discussion with scientific library specialists, we found a few
accessible Open Peer Review datasets that supposedly fulfil the criteria that Peer Review Workbench
did not. The first resource is PeerRead ([Kang et al., 2018]), a dataset released in 2018. Despite the
fact that this dataset was supposed to be released periodically, the last update available in its GitHub
repository7 dates back to May 2018. The content is currently limited, based on a few conferences
before 2018.
A second important reference is the Multidisciplinary Open Peer Review Dataset (MOPRD) by [Lin
et al., 2022], available online8. The authors point out a key fact that we confirmed in our own research:
there are very few resources related to open peer-review collections. Additionally, they note that
existing datasets do not cover the whole process of peer reviewing and are mostly based on NeurIPS
proceedings9. They compare existing peer-review datasets and their applications; in the vast majority,
the existing items are used to predict acceptance and scores ([Gao et al., 2019, Kang et al., 2018]) or
citations ([Plank and van Dalen, 2019]).
Expert knowledge is essential in writing reviews, and lack of such domain knowledge in the models
generating text is the motivation behind the Meta-Review Dataset (MReD) by [Shen et al., 2022]. The
authors created a new dataset consisting of 7,089 meta-reviews that was used for structure-controllable
text generation.
The data is retrieved from the ICLR 2018-2021 conferences. The authors point out that most of the
available datasets for summarization were either focused on the news category or contained only a
few hundred input papers. The proposed dataset is also annotated by hired professional annotators; as
such, the annotation process seems to be done manually.
All the data sources presented often gather abstracts and decisions, or abstracts and comments, or
reviews only, while our main goal is to collect the data for multi-purpose experiments with special
attention towards automatic assessment and, possibly, to use it in the field of High-Energy-Physics
experiments. Therefore, our aim is to focus on datasets that are complete in the sense of providing
full-text submissions, reviews’ data and metadata. Moreover, existing datasets are limited to well-
established computer-science conferences, with only MOPRD attempting to use multidisciplinary
texts from PeerJ Publishing. All three datasets are strongly pre-processed by text segmentation,
exclusions of parts of the submissions and data annotations. The annotation is done with external
tools or by human experts; it is not an inherent feature derived from the source data. This approach
may restrict the experimentation range with the dataset. We believe a better methodology is to provide
both the original source data and an interface to perform the pre-processing on demand, when a
dataset user wishes to do that. This is the approach advocated here with ORB.
3
ORB dataset construction
In this section we present the design and properties of the ORB dataset. We describe the source of
the data, the methodology involved in the structure design and additional resources. ORB is not
only a data resource, but also an entire API-like approach to data collection based on recognized
data-management processes.
6Source: https://lab.icsr.net/icsr_lab/workbenches.html
7PeerRead, GitHub repository, https://github.com/allenai/PeerRead/
8MOPRD:
A
Multidisciplinary
Open
Peer
Review
Dataset,
http://www.linjialiang.net/
publications/moprd/
9Conference on Neural Information Processing Systems, https://nips.cc/
3


Table 1: Statistics of data sources and their raw (unprocessed) peer-review deliverables. The number
of submission represents unique submissions (re-submissions are not counted in this case).
Source
Unique submissions
Submissions with
multiple revisions
Submissions
with reviews
Number
of reviews
OpenReview.net
34,030
- - -
24,709
85,470
SciPost.org
2,919
2,081
2,801
7,409
Total
36,949
2,081
27,510
92,879
3.1
Peer-review data sources
OpenReview.net
As first source of data, we chose the OpenReview.net website10. As it promotes
Open Science (including Open Peer Review, Open Publishing and Open Access), we selected it
to build the foundations for the ORB dataset. OpenReview.net supports an access API, which is a
REST-like tool to (1) automate the management of user’s profiles, submissions, venues and reviews,
and (2) provide read access to all the published data. We used this API to pull the reviews-related
data. After content examination, we noticed the following weaknesses.
1. There is a lack of a constant data structure or schema, since submissions, reviews, meta-
reviews, decisions are represented as one type called "Note".
2. Every "Note" is represented as a Python dictionary, the keys (densely nested) being set only
if values exist, which results in missing keys when parsing data.
3. Every value exists as a String-type, including "numerical" scores that are concatenated with
descriptions.
4. The process of obtaining data requires a diligent configuration of the client and of its search
parameters.
The streamlined design of the ORB dataset is an effort to address and solve these issues.
SciPost.org
SciPost Foundation, Inc. is a nonprofit and charitable organization that aims to provide
an online-publication portal. The tool is subscription-free and provides two-way open access to
Sci-Post’s online journals, papers submissions and reviewing process. As the "SciPost Terms and
Conditions"11 state, all online content published on the SciPost.org is licensed under license Creative
Commons Attribution 4.0 International (CC BY 4.0) that allows for redistribution, transforming and
building upon the existing material. SciPost’s reports (the name used for a review of a submission)
are well structured. They are separated into four sections: (1) Strengths, (2) Weaknesses, (3) Report
comments and (4) Requested changes. The total scoring consists of six separate grades describing
each submission’s Validity, Significance, Originality, Clarity, Formatting and Grammar. However, the
major disadvantage, in comparison to OpenReview.net, is the lack of any API allowing data access.
All the data is available only as a website; in order to obtain relevant information, the data needs to be
extracted from every single HTML page and represented as a data object. ORB will facilitate access
to SciPost’s submissions by including them in the ORB dataset and delivering tools to process the
raw HTML and update the dataset in the future.
With the two mentioned sources of data, ORB stores currently over 36,000 submissions (including
corrected re-submissions) and 89,000 reviews. Detailed statistics are shown in Table 1. Additionally,
we plan to provide inclusion of new data sources as long as they will follow Open Peer Review
principles.
3.2
Dataset structure design
Due to the observed weaknesses of the existing datasets and disadvantages of using strongly pre-
processed data sources, we designed a structured approach to deliver the data and provide a way
for ORB-dataset users to extend it if they wish to do so. Additionally, we intend to implement
10https://openreview.net/
11https://scipost.org/terms_and_conditions
4


proper methods that would clean or process the data - but according to the desired use and only when
necessary.
Predefined Interfaces
Currently, we use two separate data sources. However, the aim of ORB
is to deliver means to extend the dataset in the future. Different sources of data will differ not only
in content but also in their structure or have no defined structure at all - similarly to about 90% of
the world’s data that is particularly challenging to integrate ([Mehmood et al., 2019]). With the
introduction of two interfaces representing (1) the submission (OrbRawSubmissionInterface) and
(2) the associated review (OrbRawReviewInterface), we aim to provide the minimum needed to
be implemented for present and future usage of these data sources. We refer to them as "OrbRaw*"
interfaces (see Figure 1).
Figure 1: UML diagram presenting the predefined OrbRaw* interfaces and their implementation for
existing data sources (OpenReview.net and SciPost.org). This general view (without class fields and
methods) is provided to illustrate the architecture of the abstraction layer. Its implementations are
wrapping up the raw data either delivered from an API as lists and dictionaries or from HTML source.
They are organized as containers; the submission and review classes, whose properties are simple
strings, are intended to be converted later into more meaningful representations.
Raw data representation
We observed that the submissions and reviews from different online
libraries, OPR journals and submission portals host various data and metadata. Their designs usually
follow similar ideas, but details often do not correspond to one another when comparing two sources.
To properly accommodate them and provide a seamless transition to ORB dataclasses, each one
should implement the corresponding OrbRaw* interfaces (see Figure 1 that presents the ORB classes
structure and relationships in UML format). As the part of the ORB infrastructure, we provide
implementations of OrbRaw* interfaces for the OpenReview.net and SciPost.org data collections.
The fields of these classes reflect the original information stored on the data portals. With their own
implementation of the defined abstract methods, they fit the concept of ORB by design.
ORB dataclasses
The most important part of our work are target ORB classes that represent
submissions and reviews in a more detailed and structured way. We defined them as "dataclasses"
responsible exclusively to store data objects. Unification of heterogeneous data is a complicated task.
However, the analysis of the conceptual schema of each source results in better data integration and
enhanced reusability [Castano and De Antonellis, 2001]. Such data integration provides, in return,
better accessibility, especially in case of data from non-cooperating sources [Stupnikov, 2021].
In comparison to OrbRaw*, the Orb* classes are aimed to represent collections that simplify browsing
and perform unification of the originally heterogeneous data, with a possibility to introduce new data
sources in the future. To achieve such a goal, we introduced the new CEDIgaR procedure that can be
followed in order to perform continuous data integration in any extensible dataset.
1. Create a schema to provide conceptual representation using domain knowledge (UML
diagram or ontology), to form a baseline for dataset design.
2. Establish and select a (new) source of data, e.g., existing datasets, HTML web pages,
databases.
5


3. Define a transitional structure corresponding to the new data source.
4. Investigate the differences between the existing schema (baseline) and the incoming data,
and then:
(a) generalize the new data source into an existing baseline and
(b) accommodate the important changes and extend the baseline structure if any important
information was lost in previous sub-step.
5. Release a new version of the dataset or/and go to step 2) and repeat the procedure to add
new data sources.
Following the presented steps, we created the target structure of ORB, a dataset for Open Peer Review
processes that currently includes the submissions from two data sources (see Figure 2).
Figure 2: Target Orb* dataclasses of the ORB framework. All the OrbSubmissions of OrbPapers for
a given OrbVenue (conference, journal, etc.) are collected as an OrbDataset. Each paper, associated
to its title, abstract and URL of its pdf content, is associated to zero or more OrbReviews. Each
includes a textual review for the paper and one OrbReviewRating, defined, in terms of scope and
confidence, according to the OrbGrading scheme specific to the OrbVenue. The decision taken
by the venue committee for each paper is stored in each OrbSubmission. This foundational UML
diagram is open to enhancement in terms of generalization or further extensions when additional data
sources will be handled.
3.3
Data architecture
In this paragraph, we provide a description of the ORB data architecture, which we consider as
a process defining a complete workflow, starting from data collection, through its processing and
necessary transformations, up to the point of its final delivery to be used [IBM, 2022]. To maintain
clarity and extensibility of our solution, the data architecture is implemented in the framework
of ETL (Extract, Transform, Load) processes, a concept designed for data extraction, processing
and exchange [Vassiliadis, 2009] and widely used in data modeling and warehousing [Trujillo and
Luján-Mora, 2003].The ETL process is a three-step method to facilitate data collection, often from
more than one single source. These consecutive steps extract the data (e.g., using a dedicated API or
HTML scraper), then transform the data into a format that can be queried, and finally load the target
structures in the computer memory or data warehouse [El-Sappagh et al., 2011].
Data pre-processing, unification and generalization can be built directly into modern data pipelines
and machine learning dataset interfaces [Lübbering et al., 2022], which help to mitigate redundant
code and recurring implementation steps.
We built our own ETL processes and integrated them within the developed ORB classes (see Figure 3).
That allows for providing a reusable approach to dataset updates; re-running the ETL will download
information that is up-to-date and refresh the submissions and reviews.
6


Figure 3: ETL process and data representations during its consecutive steps. Data is extracted from
datasources in its original form, then transformed into OrbRaw* objects (that aim to keep their
original concept but in a structured way) and finally loaded as Orb* dataclasses.
3.4
Delivered resources
In summary, the ORB project led to the definition and development of the following original research
contributions, which are publicly available for usage and further development.
• The data files containing the instances of all the current collected submissions and reviews,
structured according to the ORB principles.
• The OrbRaw* interfaces (see Figure 1) and Orb* dataclasses (see Figure 2) that represent
the Open Peer Review process.
• A set of reusable ETL processes and programs dedicated to the management of dataset
updates.
• The OWL-based orb.rdf ontology for ORB classes and relations, which, in addition to
its current formal specification purpose, is intended to be connected to the ORB dataset to
develop a Knowledge Graph for Open Peer Review data.
In addition to these concrete artefacts, we introduced the concept of CEDIgaR, a methodology
specifying the key steps required for designing a dataset subject to continuous development.
4
Applications and limitations
In this section, we briefly discuss the potential applications that Open Peer Review data, in general,
and the ORB dataset, in particular, enable. Initial illustrative experiments with ORB using NLP
techniques are described and the results are presented. Finally, we discuss the limitations that such
data present, both on technical and ethical grounds.
4.1
Overview of Open Peer Review data applications
Using ORB, we aim to represent the key data elements of the peer-reviewing process. This kind of
data covers a variety of scientific and technical applications concerning analysis with NLP techniques,
text generation, but also more social aspects of this process such as ethics in scientific activities.
Nevertheless, we focus here on the more technical side of potential applications.
The Open Peer Review process provides interesting possibility to link submissions and reviews with
indirect metadata [Wang et al., 2023], e.g., the information that can be associated with authors, or with
the paper itself that was published as a preprint even before submission to journal/conference support-
ing Open Peer Review. As the ORB dataset contains a structured representation of (re)submissions
and their history concerning reviews, requested changes and corrected papers, we believe it provides
valuable data that can be used for text summarization, automatic review generation or even text
annotations. Of course, in certain cases, the ORB records will have to be pre-processed accordingly.
An original strength of ORB is the inclusion of papers and reports in various fields of Physics
(including those using experimental approaches). That allows to train machine learning models to
learn semantic relationships between words in texts from disciplines different from those commonly
7


used in Computer Science. Additionally, it can improve such specific tasks as learning embeddings
and knowledge extraction in the discipline of Physics [Shang et al., 2022], domain in which the
proper resources describing research-related knowledge seem to be very uncommon.
4.2
Preliminary illustrative experiments
Based on this first version of ORB, we were able to perform some preliminary experiments that
illustrate the kind of analyses that can be designed thanks to this new dataset. More specifically, we
aim to predict paper acceptance based on its textual embeddings and the grades with given confidence.
These results are briefly presented here.
To perform these initial experiments, we trained the Paragraph Vector-based model [Le and Mikolov,
2014] (known also as Doc2Vec) using the scientific_papers dataset [Cohan et al., 2018], which
contains abstracts and texts of 200,000 instances of ArXiv and PubMed open-access documents, to
learn proper scientific-related corpus embeddings. Training was performed online on the SWAN
(Service for Web based ANalysis)12 portal (4 CPU cores, 16 GB of RAM) with usage of Jupyter
Notebooks. The Doc2Vec model was configured as a distributed memory model of Paragraph Vector
with hierarchical softmax for model training. The size of feature vectors was set to 512 elements.
Using the PDF documents’ URLs from the ORB dataset, the full-text content of each paper was
extracted using the Python package pdfplumber13. Based on the embeddings inferred from the
above described model, we could predict the acceptance of the submitted papers present in the ORB
dataset. In this experiment, we used data from the SciPost subset only, as a similar experiment for
OpenReview was already conducted in works referenced in Section 2. The total set of 4,917 SciPost
elements (2,691 original submissions with corrected re-submissions) was split in two train and test
subsets, with a 0.8:0.2 ratio.
Acceptance prediction
Using a Support Vector Classifier with a Radial Basis Function (RBF)
kernel and the k-Nearest Neighbors algorithm (n_neighbors = 10), we obtain the confusion matrices
for paper acceptance presented in Tables 2 and 3, where p stands for "accepted" and n for "rejected"
(with a prime when dealing with predictions). In this simplified proof-of-concept experiment, the
accuracy score obtained by SVC is 0.59, while the one for kNN is 0.55. This somewhat poor result
may be due to one inherent feature of SciPost data: versioning. There, the corrected text between
successive versions may not change too much, so, for very similar embeddings, we are enforcing the
model to learn two different decisions, which negatively affects the learning process.
Table 2: Confusion matrix for SVC.
PREDICTION
ACTUAL
p
n
total
p′
577
6
583
n′
400
1
401
total
977
7
Table 3: Confusion matrix for kNN.
PREDICTION
ACTUAL
p
n
total
p′
498
85
583
n′
361
40
401
total
859
125
Grading statistics prediction
The second experiment aimed to predict the statistics related to the
submissions final scores, i.e., the averages of the final and confidence scores with their respective
variances for a paper. This approach has been chosen to investigate the impact of the varying number
of reviews for submissions. To achieve this goal, we selected another subset of the ORB dataset: the
venues that had a similar grading scope of the final score (range similar to 1–10) and confidence
(range 1–5). This choice allowed us to use the largest number of submissions. We ended up with
over 16,000 submissions from conferences such as NeurIPS and ICLR but also UAI (Uncertainty in
12The Swan Service, https://swan.cern.ch
13pdfplumber’s GitHub repository, https://github.com/jsvine/pdfplumber
8


Artificial Intelligence).
We used the keras_tuner package14 to define the trainable hyper-model of the prediction neural
network. With automatic tests of various networks’ parameters (such as optimizer choice, number of
hidden layers, etc.), the tuning result yields the model with the configuration in Table 4. We performed
Table 4: Result of hyperparameter tuning for neural network predicting grading statistics.
Hyperparameter
Value
Optimizer
Adam
Hidden Layers
8
Neurons per layer
150
Activation function
ELU
an MAE (Mean Absolute Error) metric evaluation to get an idea of how large the differences between
the actual data and the model predictions are (see Table 5). These values show that the network
prediction may be off by around 0.8 per final score and 0.4 per confidence. One possible reason
Table 5: Values of MAE (Mean Absolute Error) for the final and confidence scores and their variances
Score error
Score variance error
Confidence error
Conf. variance error
0.87
0.78
0.40
0.30
for these somewhat wide error ranges is that this experiment does not take into account that the
OpenReview grades are often influenced by elements other than the mere submitted text. For instance,
an important factor is the impact of the possible discussions between authors and reviewers.
To conclude on these preliminary experiments, it is clear that improving their results would require a
more thorough analysis of the underlying data, which we leave as future work, our goal here being
only to give a feeling for the type of uses we think ORB could be suitable for. In any case, these
preliminary experiments already show a very important feature coming with the ORB dataset: the
possibility to create quite large and task-specific subsets of review data for more focused analysis, as
shown in the grading-prediction experiment.
4.3
Limitations
The preliminary experiments described in Section 4.2 provide confidence in the operational usability
of the ORB framework while illustrating very simple use cases for the ORB dataset, thus paving the
way to more advanced, NLP-based analyses of this corpus of text, which could have a significant
impact for the Open Science research.
Yet, we noticed the following limitations and issues with these data sources. Firstly, the papers’
full-texts are delivered as PDF files. The PDFs are not stored in ORB, just their URLs, in order to
keep the dataset within reasonable size limit. We do not address the issue of PDF data extraction in
the framework of this paper, as it poses multiple questions regarding the segmentation of such data
and the possibility to design it as multi-modal process (e.g., text, figures, tables, metadata).
Secondly, no personal data were stored in the original data sources during the peer-review process
(neither for the authors nor for the reviewers). However, the ORB dataset, as also the used data
sources, contain the papers’ titles and URLs to PDF. This naming information could thus be indirectly
inferred or via PDF extraction and analysis, possibly posing ethical privacy concerns.
Ethics is, indeed here, an important possible concern for the type of data collected in ORB, as the
recent development of the field of Digital Ethics shows [Véliz]. The OpenReview and Scipost websites
already deal with some of the these concerns: the submissions and their reviews are envisioned to be
public, a fact made quite clear to the contributors by the sites’ guidelines. Yet, the type of large-scale
cross analysis that NLP techniques and large-language models enable might require this consent to
be more informed. For instance, already now, in the case of a rejected paper, agreeing to still take
part in the open-access process is up to the authors (an additional opt-in decision).
14Keras documentation: KerasTuner, https://keras.io/keras_tuner/
9


Finally, and still in the realm of ethics, the provided data (especially reviews) are in an unchanged
form, being straight copies from those present in the original provider sources. Therefore, no semantic
examination of the about 89,000 reviews for the presence of offensive content was performed. Relying
on the scientists’ code of ethics involved during the review process might not be enough in the long
term, especially in the presence of possible external hacks. Dealing with such issues at a large scale
and with the specifics of the scientific domain could be an interesting research endeavor.
5
Conclusions and future work
In this paper, we have presented the design and implementation of the ORB dataset, which contains
Open Peer Review process data built from heterogeneous data sources, its infrastructure and some
illustrative analysis use cases. It contains scientific submissions and their reviews from established
conferences in the field of Computer Science (OpenReview.net) and from open journals in the field of
natural sciences, especially High-Energy Physics (SciPost.org). To the best of our knowledge, ORB
is the first dataset containing experimental HEP-related peer review data.
The concrete results of our work (datafiles, dataset design, interfaces and dataclasses implementation
incorporated into ETL processes, ontology) are shared publicly for inspection, usage and discussions
regarding further development on the CERN GitLab server at https://gitlab.cern.ch/irrad/
orb-dataset. Moreover, to design the ORB dataset for continuous development, as needed by the
current fluid situation of the Open Science movement, we introduced and followed the new CEDIgaR
methodology, another contribution of this work.
We foresee periodical updates of the ORB dataset and infrastructure and plan on extending it with
new Open Peer Review data sources. Each extension will come with necessary changes in the design
(according to CEDIgaR) and corresponding implementations of dataclasses. Additionally, we plan to
use the ORB dataset in the framework of the RADNEXT project to support automatic assessment
of research proposals. It should be beneficial for both applicants and reviewers as these activities
may involve the pre-review generation of comments or recommendations, even before experimental
proposals are submitted.
Acknowledgments and Disclosure of Funding
This project has received funding from the European Union’s Horizon 2020 research and innovation
programme under grant agreement No. 101008126. For advice regarding the OpenScience approach
and for recommending SciPost, we thank our colleagues working at CERN: Micha Moskovic,
manager of Inspirehep.net15, and Kamaran Naim, Head of Open Science.
References
Silvana Castano and Valeria De Antonellis. Global viewing of heterogeneous data sources. IEEE Transactions
on Knowledge and Data Engineering, 13(2):277–297, 2001.
Arman Cohan, Franck Dernoncourt, Doo Soon Kim, Trung Bui, Seokhwan Kim, Walter Chang, and Nazli
Goharian. A discourse-aware attention model for abstractive summarization of long documents. arXiv
preprint arXiv:1804.05685, 2018.
Shaker H Ali El-Sappagh, Abdeltawab M Ahmed Hendawi, and Ali Hamed El Bastawissy. A proposed model
for data warehouse etl processes. Journal of King Saud University-Computer and Information Sciences, 23
(2):91–104, 2011.
Yang Gao, Steffen Eger, Ilia Kuznetsov, Iryna Gurevych, and Yusuke Miyao. Does my rebuttal matter?
insights from a major NLP conference. In NAACL-HLT 2019, Volume 1, pages 1274–1290, Minneapolis,
Minnesota, June 2019. Association for Computational Linguistics. doi: 10.18653/v1/N19-1129. URL
https://aclanthology.org/N19-1129.
IBM.
Build a modern data architecture, Jun 2022.
URL https://www.ibm.com/resources/
the-data-differentiator/data-architecture.
15INSPIRE-HEP is an open-access digital library for high-energy physics (HEP) https://inspirehep.
net/.
10


Dongyeop Kang, Waleed Ammar, Bhavana Dalvi, Madeleine Van Zuylen, Sebastian Kohlmeier, Eduard Hovy,
and Roy Schwartz. A dataset of peer reviews (peerread): Collection, insights and nlp applications. arXiv
preprint arXiv:1804.09635, 2018.
Quoc Le and Tomas Mikolov. Distributed representations of sentences and documents. In International
conference on machine learning, pages 1188–1196. PMLR, 2014.
Jialiang Lin, Jiaxin Song, Zhangping Zhou, Yidong Chen, and Xiaodong Shi. Moprd: A multidisciplinary open
peer review dataset. arXiv preprint arXiv:2212.04972, 2022.
Max Lübbering, Maren Pielka, Ilhamcengiz Henk, and Rafet Sifa. Datastack: unification of heterogeneous
machine learning dataset interfaces. In 2022 IEEE 38th International Conference on Data Engineering
Workshops (ICDEW), pages 66–69. IEEE, 2022.
Hassan Mehmood, Ekaterina Gilman, Marta Cortes, Panos Kostakos, Andrew Byrne, Katerina Valta, Stavros
Tekes, and Jukka Riekki. Implementing big data lake for heterogeneous data sources. In 2019 ieee 35th
international conference on data engineering workshops (icdew), pages 37–44. IEEE, 2019.
Barbara Plank and Reinard van Dalen. Citetracked: a longitudinal dataset of peer reviews and citations. In
4th Joint Workshop on Bibliometric-enhanced Information Retrieval and Natural Language Processing for
Digital Libraries (BIRNDL 2019), pages 116–122. CEUR Workshop Proceedings, 2019.
Tony Ross-Hellauer. What is open peer review? a systematic review. F1000Research, 6, 2017.
Jialin Shang, Jingyuan Huang, Shihua Zeng, Jian Zhang, and Hongwei Wang. Representation and extraction of
physics knowledge based on knowledge graph and embedding-combined text classification for cooperative
learning. In 2022 IEEE 25th International Conference on Computer Supported Cooperative Work in Design
(CSCWD), pages 1053–1058. IEEE, 2022.
Chenhui Shen, Liying Cheng, Ran Zhou, Lidong Bing, Yang You, and Luo Si. Mred: A meta-review dataset for
structure-controllable text generation. Findings of the Association for Computational Linguistics: ACL 2022,
pages 2521–2535, 2022.
Sergey Stupnikov. Applying model-driven approach for data model unification. In Modelling to Program:
Second International Workshop, M2P 2020, Lappeenranta, Finland, March 10–12, 2020, Revised Selected
Papers 1, pages 212–232. Springer, 2021.
Juan Trujillo and Sergio Luján-Mora. A uml based approach for modeling etl processes in data warehouses. In
Conceptual Modeling-ER 2003: 22nd International Conference on Conceptual Modeling, Chicago, IL, USA,
October 13-16, 2003. Proceedings 22, pages 307–320. Springer, 2003.
Panos Vassiliadis. A survey of extract–transform–load technology. International Journal of Data Warehousing
and Mining (IJDWM), 5(3):1–27, 2009.
Carissa Véliz. The Oxford Handbook of Digital Ethics. Oxford University Press. ISBN 9780198857815.
doi:
10.1093/oxfordhb/9780198857815.001.0001.
URL https://doi.org/10.1093/oxfordhb/
9780198857815.001.0001.
Gang Wang, Qi Peng, Yanfeng Zhang, and Mingyang Zhang. What have we learned from openreview? World
Wide Web, 26(2):683–708, 2023.
Linda Williams. New dataset offers unique insights into peer review, Sep 2021. URL https://www.elsevier.
com/connect/new-dataset-offers-unique-insights-into-peer-review.
Dietmar Wolfram, Peiling Wang, and Hyoungjoo Park. Open peer review: The current landscape and emerging
models. 2019.
Dietmar Wolfram, Peiling Wang, Adam Hembree, and Hyoungjoo Park. Open peer review: promoting trans-
parency in open science. Scientometrics, 125(2):1033–1051, 2020.
Weizhe Yuan, Pengfei Liu, and Graham Neubig. Can we automate scientific reviewing? Journal of Artificial
Intelligence Research, 75:171–212, 2022.
11


A
Datasheet for the ORB dataset
A.1
Motivation
The main motivation behind creation of ORB dataset (Open Review-Based) is usage for automatic comments
and reviews generation for proposals in the field of High-Energy Physics (HEP). Since (to our best knowledge)
the existing dataset are mostly limited to the discipline of Computer Science, we decided to build our own
resource that contains data of Open Review process in HEP (see SciPost datasource).
A.2
Composition
The dataset consists of the data files (binary files and JSON-based format) containing the instances of all collected
submissions and reviews, structured according to the ORB principles. Currently it uses the OpenReview.Net and
SciPost.org as sources of Open Peer Review data. Besides included datafiles, the dataset delivers the Python
implementation of OrbRaw* interfaces and Orb* dataclasses that represent the Open Peer Review process, with
history and changes when available.
Orb* dataclasses are highly structured generalization that is supposed to unify different data sources (see
Figure A.1).
Figure A.1: ORB dataset UML diagram presents the layout of target dataset and relationship between
classes.
A.3
Collection process
The dataset instances are collected from two sources, however, the methods for data collection differs in these
cases:
1. OpenReview.net: OpenReview delivers implementation of API client that we used to gather the papers
submission and their review in form of "notes",
2. SciPost.org: it is a web portal that contains submissions and reviews in HTML format, therefore we
implemented own scrapper to extract relevant data from individual webpages.
For both cases, we intend to publish the examples of API usage and implementation of our own SciPost
scrapper. The collection process is implemented as the ETL process (Extract - Transform - Load), allowing for
potential users to re-run it and update the dataset with Python script. All stages of data collection (collected raw
information, OrbRaw* instances and target Orb* instances) can be stored for further use.
A.4
Preprocessing
We avoided the unnecessary preprocessing that strips information in order to deliver all relevant data properties.
However, the collection process is aiming to unify data, therefore ORB* classes are reorganizing the data format
in order to fit the schema described in the Section A.2. With addition of new data sources we expect further
schema modification, beyond the status that is currently presented.
12


A.5
Potential uses
ORB dataset contains representation of the Peer Review process, therefore its greatest value is in the papers full-
text and corresponding reviews. However, we designed it to deliver supplementary data, e.g., paper submission
history, data properties such as paper acceptance status or numerical scores representation.
We envision the possibilities of following applications such as:
• Large Language Models (LLMs) training and fine-tuning,
• embeddings training,
• reviews and comments generation related to Peer Review Process and scientific assessment,
• scientific texts summarization,
• automatic classification and quality assessment of scientific papers,
• sentiment analysis of Peer Review comments,
• statistics generation related to the paper-submission process,
A.6
Distribution
We are building the ORB dataset upon available services and data: OpenReview (open access, MIT License16
specified for API client) and SciPost (open access, Creative Commons Attribution 4.0 International (CC BY 4.0)
License17).
To facilitate usage of ORB, its relevant code and other deliverables, we chose licensing under the Creative
Commons Attribution 4.0 International (CC BY 4.0) License. The copyright remains authors property, however,
we agree to sharing and adaptation according to specified license terms.
A.7
Maintenance
We are planning periodical dataset update and maintenance in order to accomplish the goals specified in
Motivation section (refer to Section A.1). More precisely, we plan
• updates, i.e., reruning the ETL processes to download, process and store the new submissions that
arrived since the previous datafiles publication, and
• maintenance, with possible bugfixing and addition of new features, including th definition of new
datasources and relevant code implementation.
Additionally (as specified in the previous section), the code is publically available on CERN Gitlab and licensed
under Creative Commons Attribution 4.0 International (CC BY 4.0) License. Therefore everyone willing will
have access to accommodate the dataset to their use and perform updates.
We plan setting up an additional repository to coordinate git pull requests. More information will be available in
the Readme file on CERN gitlab (see Section 1).
16The MIT License, https://opensource.org/license/mit/
17Attribution 4.0 International (CC BY 4.0), https://creativecommons.org/licenses/by/4.0/
13
