Editorial
https://doi.org/10.1038/s41467-022-33056-8
Transparent peer review for all
Check for updates
Starting in 2016, we have offered
authors the option to publish the
comments received from the review-
ers and their responses alongside the
paper. As we believe that transpar-
ency strengthens the quality of peer
review, we are now moving to publish
the exchanges between authors and
reviewers for all research articles
submitted from November 2022
onward and accepted for publication.
Referees will still have the option to
remain completely anonymous, to
sign their reports, and/or to choose
to be acknowledged by name as part
of our reviewer recognition scheme.
T
he evaluation of scientiﬁc studies
by peers prior to their publication
is an important tool to ensure that
widely
disseminated
science
adheres to sufﬁciently rigorous
standards of proof, and that the reported
ﬁndings are adequately interpreted. Amongst
other beneﬁts, the peer review process can
help to improve the reliability of early results
and the overall value of published manu-
scripts. For a long time, this critical compo-
nent of the scientiﬁc endeavor was hidden
from view – only witnessed by the authors,
editors, and referees involved in evaluating a
particular submission. Over the past two
decades however, this shroud of secrecy has
progressively been lifted, as various ‘Open
Review’ processes are being implemented at a
growing number of journals1,2.
In 2016, Nature Communications provided
authors with the option to publish peer
reviewers’ comments and their responses
alongside their paper3. Since then, similar
options are being offered by several journals
from the Nature portfolio. Nature itself has
been offering this option as a pilot since
February 2020, and nearly half of all papers
published in 2021 were accompanied by peer
review reports4. At Nature Communications,
the opt in rate for the same period was
approximately 70%.
A few years ago, in a comment published in
Nature entitled ‘Publish peer reviews’ the
authors made a strong case for making peer
review ﬁles part of the ofﬁcial scientiﬁc
record1. Amongst the listed beneﬁts of an
open review process, the idea that the peer
review comments represent valuable scho-
larship that should be preserved is one we
particularly agree with. As editors, we also feel
that in some cases – where authors and
referees could not reach complete agreement
on how certain data should be interpreted –
making reports and the response from the
authors public shows that valid potential
caveats or limitations of the study have been
raised and discussed. Peer review, in itself,
cannot completely guarantee the validity of
the conclusions reached by authors, espe-
cially in situations where competing hypoth-
eses exist. Armed with the peer review ﬁle,
each reader can better critically assess the
robustness of the conclusions. Making the
back and forth between authors and referees
available also beneﬁts authors, as it allows
them to bring forward arguments in support
of their view that might otherwise be difﬁcult
to
logically
integrate
within
a
paper’s
narrative.
“Amongst the listed beneﬁts of
an open review process, the
idea that the peer review
comments represent valuable
scholarship that should be
preserved is one we particu-
larly agree with”
In short, we strongly believe that publishing
peer review ﬁles greatly beneﬁts scientists as
well as the public at large, serves to increase
conﬁdence in the peer review process, and
augments the value of peer reviewed work. It
also provides greater recognition to reviewers
should they wish to be acknowledged for their
contribution. The data indicates that a sig-
niﬁcant majority of our authors already agree,
and it is our hope that those who had not
considered it previously will realize its bene-
ﬁts. Hence, for manuscripts received from
November 2022 onwards, the peer review ﬁles
will be published alongside every published
Nature Communications research article.
We are very grateful for the time our
reviewers dedicate to provide constructive
comments to our authors, and we appreciate
that they may wish to remain anonymous;
therefore, for our referees, signing their
reports – or choosing to be acknowledged by
name as part of our reviewer recognition
scheme – will remain optional. We will also
continue to offer our authorsthe possibility to
opt-in double blind peer-review, during which
their identities remain anonymous to the
referees during the review process.
Finally,
we
hope
that
Early
Career
Researchers from all ﬁelds of science all over
the world – now being able to read the
exchange between authors and reviewers for
all our papers – will beneﬁt from getting ﬁrst
hand insight into the inner workings of the
peer review process.
References
1.
Polka, J. K. et al. Publish peer reviews. Nature 560, 545–547
(2018).
2.
Wolfram, D., Wang, P. & Hembree, A. et al. Open peer
review: promoting transparency in open science. Sciento-
metrics 125, 1033–1051 (2020).
3. Editorial. Transparent peer review at Nature Communica-
tions. Nat. Commun. 6, 10277 (2015).
4. Editorial. Nature is trialling transparent peer review — the
early results are encouraging. Nature 603, 8 (2022).
Open Access This article is licensed under a Creative
Commons Attribution 4.0 International License, which permits
use, sharing, adaptation, distribution and reproduction in any
medium or format, as long as you give appropriate credit to the
original author(s) and the source, provide a link to the Creative
Commons license, and indicate if changes were made. The
images or other third party material in this article are included
in the article’s Creative Commons license, unless indicated
otherwise in a credit line to the material. If material is not
included in the article’s Creative Commons license and your
intended use is not permitted by statutory regulation or
exceeds the permitted use, you will need to obtain permission
directly from the copyright holder. To view a copy of this
license, visit http://creativecommons.org/licenses/by/4.0/.
© Springer Nature Limited 2022
nature communications
  (2022) 13:6173 |
1
1234567890():,;
1234567890():,;


© Springer Nature Limited 2022. This work is published under
http://creativecommons.org/licenses/by/4.0/(the “License”). Notwithstanding
the ProQuest Terms and Conditions, you may use this content in accordance
with the terms of the License.
